feat(linter): domains and deps (#4713)
biomejs/biome: .changeset/introduce_the_domains_linter_feature.md

---
cli: minor
---

# Introduce the `domains` linter feature

The Biome linter now has a new way to opt-in rules, with a concept called `domains`.

Domains can be seen as concepts shared by different rules.

You can enable and disable multiple rules that belong to a domain. When you assign `true`, Biome will enable the rules, when you assign `false`, Biome will disable the rules.

```json5
// biome.jsonc
{
  "linter": {
    "domains": {

>       "test": false, // rules around testing are disabled

Reviewer: It would be *really* neat if our `biome init` script could make a best effort to detect what kind of folder structure and/or file name pattern is in use for tests. And based on that it could automatically populate the `overrides`. For example:

```jsonc
{
    "overrides": [{
        "include": ["**/*.test.js"],
        "linter": {
            "domains": {
                "test": true
            }
        }
    }]
}
```

Author: We can go even further, and make this part of the `RuleDomain` feature. A `RuleDomain` can specify a `Matcher`, and enable the rules if it path matches a certain glob. This logic is applied the same way as dependencies  are applied, which means that if the user tinker with configuration, it's not applied anymore

>       "next": true // rules around Next.js are disabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "next": true // rules related to Next.js are enabled
```

---
cli: minor
---

# Introduce the `domains` linter feature

The Biome linter now has a new way to opt-in rules, with a concept called `domains`.

Domains can be seen as concepts shared by different rules.

> You can enable and disable multiple rules that belong to a domain. When you assign `true`, Biome will enable the rules, when you assign `false`, Biome will disable the rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can enable and disable multiple rules that belong to a domain. When you assign `"all"`, Biome will enable all the rules, when you assign `"none"`, Biome will disable the rules, when you assign "recommended", Biome will enable all rules of the domain that are recommended.
```

```json5
// biome.jsonc
{
  "linter": {
    "domains": {

>       "test": "all", // all rules around that belong to this domain are enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "test": "all", // all rules that belong to this domain are enabled
```

>       "react": "recommended", // only the recommended rules ofd this domain are enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "react": "recommended", // only the recommended rules from this domain are enabled
```
